# ReadMe
## Overview
The data collected here is for a project within UCLA’s Library and Information Science 262A: Data Management and Practice course, Fall 2025. The participants in this project include: Alice Fracchiolla, Claire Stephens, Qiqi Lin, and Ava Lohr. The field that this project pertains to is Art History, with the subdomain concentrating on Conservation. The data collected in this project responds to the question: How do art historians and conservators describe, share, and manage conservation data? One hundred articles were selected from the Journal of the American Institute for Conservation and the Studies in Conservation Journal. Data, such as the article title, author(s), publication year, URL, the kinds of data collected, if data was deposited into a repository, etc. was extracted from these articles and result in this project’s data set (.csv), ReadMe, Data Curation Profile (pdf). Please consider attributing or citing this dataset with respect to research and/or publication, and contact the participants of this project below. 

## Data Collection 
The articles collected for this data set come from two different journals: The Journal of the American Institute for Conservation and the Studies in Conservation Journal. For The Journal of the American Institute for Conservation, we searched for articles published from January 2020 to November 2025 that contained the keyword “conservation.” All of the articles found were collected from the Taylor & Francis peer-reviewed journal database. For the articles selected from Studies in Conservation, we used the same search mechanism, but changed the keyword search term, "conservation" to titles only. We randomly selected 50 articles from each journal and manually inputted data found in the articles into a Google Sheets spreadsheet. 

## Data Cleaning
To clean this dataset, we did so first by manually standardizing single-valued fields, or fields that did not contain more than one value separated by punctuations and were created without a standardized dictionary. For example, for the column “Funding Source,” various values, such as “no,” “none,” “no information,” or “no funding source provided” were inputted for articles that did not contain such information. We standardized all the fields that did not have funding information to be “none listed.” This same standardization was performed for the rest of the columns. In addition, we manually cleaned the funding source so that each cell only included the name of the foundations or institutions responsible for funding, instead of including other information, like the name of the program or the grant numbers. 
After manual cleaning process, we created a python script to clean fields that contained multiple values. First, we downloaded the spreadsheet as a .csv file and imported Python Library pandas. Several columns, such as “Authors“ and “Affiliated Country,” represent a list of values in a single cell. For each of these columns, we dropped missing entries, splitted entries into lists using a semi-colon as the main separator, after replacing alternatives like commas or periods, and counted occurrences of each unique item.

## Data Analysis
We performed a simple count of all the authors and the occurrences of authors that had an ORCID ID. We counted frequencies of each of the columns, such as Study locations, Funding Sources, Data Deposited Responses, Names of the Data Repository, Data Availability Statements, and Data Paper Cited. To find correlations between the countries affiliated with the studies, the frequencies of funding bodies, data deposited, and and data availability statements, we created visualizations of the affiliated countries and other categorical fields. Perhaps the most difficult task, was to create a conceptual structure of the “Data Collected” field using the Getty Art & Architecture Thesaurus (AAT). We chose the AAT because most of the articles in our dataset were related to Cultural Artifact, Fine Arts, and Architectural Heritage. Initially, we used the Open Refine Reconciliation tool provided by the Getty to perform the reconciliation and mapping. However, the results were unsatisfactory because of our insufficient knowledge in navigating the tool to reconcile cells that contained multiple values that are more not the preferred terms in the AAT. 
Our next option is to use a keyword-based mapping approach in Python. To do this, we first generated a word cloud of all the data collected in this field and identified the most frequently appeared words of data collected. Then, because the Getty does not allow downloading access to the entire AAT vocabulary, we manually searched the keyword on the Getty AAT website to find the closest matching preferred term and its hierarchy in the AAT vocabulary. We created AAT subset terms that contained 21 of the most frequently appeared words in our dataset, their categories, preferred terms and hierarchy paths. We saved this vocabulary as aat_subset_terms.csv. Then, we built a dictionary for the mapping rules that associated each AAT preferred term with a list of keywords expected to appear in the cleaned “Data Collected” text. For example, for the preferred term “Photography”, our mapping keywords included “photo,” “photograph,” “photography,” and “2D images.” Once all the terms were constructed, we intersected the mapping rules with the actual preferred term values loaded from the csv file mentioned above, and created a tree-structured visualization of the values matched to the terms. 
We realized that this mapping only matched partial keywords and is not a comprehensive representation of the data collected field, and generated another word cloud to visualize the frequency of values that were not matched. Because of the limitation of this manually-curated AAT terms and the lack of standardization during the initial data collection process, most of the values were not matched (445 unique values out of 618 total values). Another possible explanation for the high rate of unmatched terms may also be that the bounded scope of the AAT vocabulary simply does not represent the breadth of conservation science (although unlikely because the AAT has over 500,000 terms recorded). 

## Data Dictionary
Affiliated Country: Location of the of researchers and/or affiliated institution(s).
Artistic/Historical/Cultural Object of Study: Artwork, cultural heritage object, and/or site that the research article is about.
Discipline/Concept: Art historical subject as defined by the Getty Research Institute's Art and Architecture Thesaurus. The subjects that are used in this project are listed below along with their unique identification numbers.
Decorative Arts (300054168) - The discipline concerning works that are primarily utilitarian in form or function, but that have aesthetic value provided by the design, decoration, or embellishment, such as ceramics, furniture, textiles, glass, and others.
Cultural Artifacts (300265421) - Physical objects produced or shaped by human craft, especially tools, weapons, ornaments, or other items that inherently give cultural clues about the person who made it or used it, and are further characterized by being of archaeological or historical interest and of the type collected by museums or private collectors.
Architectural Heritage (300417850) - Built works transmitted inter-generationally within a society and that are invested with significance in that society.
Landscapes (300008626) - Broadly used to describe portions of the earth's surface that share common repeating characteristics that can be comprehended at a glance. Landscapes are more than scenery or political units; they are systems of natural and cultural contexts. If possible use a more specific term.
Archaeological Sites (300000810) - Locations where human activities once took place and some form of material evidence has been left behind, particularly sites where evidence of past activity is being or has been investigated using the discipline of archaeology.
Funding: Institution and/or individual(s) that provided funding for research articles.
Data Deposited?
In Paper: At least some data are present in the paper. This includes in the form of tables, figures, digital reproductions. complete data is not available.
Repository: Data are deposited in a data repository. 
No: Data was not deposited.
Upon Request: Data may be available upon request of the researchers.
Data Repository 
[name of repository where the data was deposited]
None: data was not deposited in a repository.

### AAT Vocabulary 
Chemical analysis (300081685): Analysis of the chemical composition of a material.
Microscopy (300054100): Generally, the use of or investigation with a microscope.
Electron microscopy (300224955): The use of or investigation with an electron microscope.
Optical microscopy (300379532): Refers to the oldest form of microscopy, which employs visible light to view objects that are too small to be seen with the naked, unaided eye.
Spectroscopy (300179535): Means of observing the way a substance transmits, emits, or responds to various wavelengths in the electromagnetic energy spectrum. To refer to measurement of wavelengths (rather than only looking at them) of a spectrum, and not necessarily wavelengths only of electromagnetic energy spectrum, use "spectrometry." When the word is used in a bound compound term, it may form a synonym for spectrometry, as processes of observing and measuring are not distinguished; examples are "infrared spectrometry" and "infrared spectroscopy," which are considered synonyms.
X-radiography: radiography using x-rays. In this process, the object to be recorded is placed between an x-ray tube and the film; the film registers the differential absorption of the x-rays by the object’s internal structure as a projection shadowgraph. Among the many uses are for medical purposes and as an examination technique for easel paintings, for examining the substrate structure. http://vocab.getty.edu/page/aat/300419323 
Photography: the art or process of making photographs, which are pictures produced by means of the chemical action of light on a sensitive film, glass, paper, metal, or by digital means. http://vocab.getty.edu/page/aat/300054225
Electronic Imaging: the process of recording, transferring, storage, and manipulation of graphic information (such as maps), or images (such as art works) into electronic format for storage, retrieval, and use in computer and video systems. http://vocab.getty.edu/page/aat/300202375 
Observation: The action or practice of observing, watching, or noticing. http://vocab.getty.edu/page/aat/300343797  
Pigments: Any relatively insoluble organic, inorganic, natural or artificial substance that imparts a color to another substance or mixture and always appears as the same specific color when viewed in white light. It is the constituent of paint or ink that provides the color. Distinguished from a dye, which is soluble in the vehicle, a pigment is insoluble in the vehicle, but instead is held in a suspension. http://vocab.getty.edu/page/aat/300013109 
Wood (plant material): the principal tissue of trees and other plants that provides both strength and a means of conducting nutrients. Wood is one of the most versatile materials known. http://vocab.getty.edu/page/aat/300011914 
Coating: Use generally for any substance spread over a surface, usually for protection or decoration. http://vocab.getty.edu/page/aat/300014907
Measurements (Dimensions): Dimensions or size ascertained by measuring; a magnitude, quantity, or extent calculated by the application of an instrument or device marked in standard units. http://vocab.getty.edu/page/aat/300266037 
Architectural records: Records documenting the design and construction of buildings or other structures. http://vocab.getty.edu/page/aat/300048713 
Museum records: Records to the history of founding and details of collecting, loans, and other transactions of a museum. http://vocab.getty.edu/page/aat/300027963 
Logs (records): Records in which are entered sequential data, especially about activities or transactions that occur in a system. http://vocab.getty.edu/page/aat/300202545
Archival Materials: The physical materials that make up the mass of an archive. Distinguished from AAT "archives (groupings). http://vocab.getty.edu/page/aat/300379505 

## Contact Information
Ava Lohr: avalohr00@g.ucla.edu
